CNV-46346: Adding docs for controller revisions (#99504)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/virt-change-vm-instance-type-cli.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * virt/virtual_machines/creating_vm/virt-creating-vms-from-instance-types.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="virt-change-vm-instance-type-cli_{context}"]
= Changing the VM instance type by using the CLI

[role="_abstract"]
As a VM owner, if you want to change the instance type of a VM, you can do this by changing the `name` field in the VM spec. This triggers the update logic, ensuring a new, immutable controller revision snapshot is taken of the new resource configuration.

.Prerequisites

* You created the VM by using an instance type.
* You have installed the {oc-first}.

.Procedure

. Stop the VM.

. Run the following command, replacing `<vm_name>` with the name of your VM, and `<new_instancetype>` with the name of the new instance type you want to change to:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc patch vm/<vm_name> --type merge -p '{"spec":{"instancetype":{"name": "<new_instancetype>"}}'

Reviewer: missing }

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * virt/virtual_machines/creating_vm/virt-creating-vms-from-instance-types.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="virt-change-vm-instance-type-cli_{context}"]
= Changing the VM instance type by using the CLI

[role="_abstract"]
As a VM owner, if you want to change the instance type of a VM, you can do this by changing the `name` field in the VM spec. This triggers the update logic, ensuring a new, immutable controller revision snapshot is taken of the new resource configuration.

.Prerequisites

* You created the VM by using an instance type.
* You have installed the {oc-first}.

.Procedure

. Stop the VM.

. Run the following command, replacing `{vm-name}` with the name of your VM, and `{new-instancetype}` with the name of the new instance type you want to change to:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ oc patch vm/{vm-name} --type merge -p '{"spec":{"instancetype":{"name": "{new-instancetype}"}}'

Reviewer 2: Prior to `v4.19` this required the `revisionName` to also be cleared.

Author: The affected version for https://issues.redhat.com/browse/CNV-46346 is 4.19, so I don't think we need to document stuff prior to that?

----

> . Restart the VM.

Reviewer 2: This is optional and only required when we can't live update the VM for the user. A user can tell if this is required by looking for the `RestartRequired` condition on the VM after changing the instance type.

Author: Good info, thank you!

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * virt/virtual_machines/creating_vm/virt-creating-vms-from-instance-types.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="virt-change-vm-instance-type-cli_{context}"]
= Changing the VM instance type by using the CLI

[role="_abstract"]

> As a VM owner, if you want to change the instance type of a VM, you can do this by changing the `name` field in the VM spec. This triggers the update logic, ensuring a new, immutable controller revision snapshot is taken of the new resource configuration.

Reviewer 3: If reasonably possible, I'd try to weave in some example usecases/reasons for changing an instance type. Alternatively, it could also be added in the higher-level assembly abstract ("Changing the instance type for a VM"). As a result, this would much better conform to JTBD requirements.

Author: Addressing at the assembly level

.Prerequisites

* You created the VM by using an instance type.
* You have installed the {oc-first}.

.Procedure

. Stop the VM.

> . Run the following command, replacing `<vm_name>` with the name of your VM, and `<new_instancetype>` with the name of the new instance type you want to change to:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Run the following command, and replace `<vm_name>` with the name of your VM, and `<new_instancetype>` with the name of the new instance type you want to change to:
```

I'd generally avoid gerunds where you can use simple imperative.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc patch vm/<vm_name> --type merge -p '{"spec":{"instancetype":{"name": "<new_instancetype>"}}}'
----

.Verification

> * Check the controller revision reference in the updated VM `status` field by running the following command and verifying that the revision name is updated in the output:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Check the controller revision reference in the updated VM `status` field. Run the following command and verify that the revision name is updated in the output:
```
A rather long & complicated sentence that doesn't really need to be.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get vms/<vm_name> -o json | jq .status.instancetypeRef
----
+

> .Example output
> [source,terminal]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
*Example output*
+
[source,terminal]
```
Wouldn't work with DITA conversion, AFAIK.

Author: Thanks for the heads up!

----
{
  "controllerRevisionRef": {
    "name": "vm-cirros-csmall-csmall-3e86e367-9cd7-4426-9507-b14c27a08671-2"
  },
  "kind": "VirtualMachineInstancetype",
  "name": "csmall"
}
----

> * You can also check that the VM instance is running the new configuration defined in the latest controller revision. For example, if you updated the instance type to use 2 vCPUs instead of 1, you could run the following command and check the output:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Optional: Check that the VM instance is running the new configuration defined in the latest controller revision. For example, if you updated the instance type to use 2 vCPUs instead of 1, run the following command and check the output:
```

+

> .Example command
> [source,terminal]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
*Example command*
+
[source,terminal]
```

----
$ oc get vmi/<vm_name> -o json | jq .spec.domain.cpu
----
+

> .Example output that verifies that the revision uses 2 vCPUs
> [source,terminal]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
*Example output that verifies that the revision uses 2 vCPUs*
+
[source,terminal]
```
